it's morning the alarm rings you wake up
feeling tired and push the snooze button
10 minutes later it rings again you're
feeling worse now I stay in bed a little
longer then you realize you're late for
work and finally get up exhausted sound
familiar
then this video is for you first off
stop hitting the snooze button always
get up at the first sound of your alarm
clock it'll be much more difficult to
get up after the second third or fourth
ring ten minutes of extra sleep won't
make you feel any better in fact every
time your alarm wakes you up you
experience stress so don't do it again
and again just turn it off and get up
straight away when you wake up clench
your fists tightly and say yay really
loud it sounds weird but it's a really
effective way to shake off any
drowsiness you'll get a rush of energy
and your brain will be a little confused
so it won't go back to sleep although
anyone sleeping next to you might not
appreciate another simple trick set your
alarm to the loudest it'll go and put it
on a shelf in the furthest corner of the
room the next morning you'll have to get
out of bed to turn it off it's easier to
stay up if you're already on your feet
every time you go to bed late you always
worry the next morning will be tough but
this worry only makes things worse as it
guarantees you'll wake up feeling tired
so you need to trick your brain a little
imagine you need to get up early the
next day and it's already 2 a.m. say
something like this to your brain 4
hours of sleep is enough for me to wake
up full of energy tomorrow morning is
gonna be great if you can get yourself
to really believe these words you'll
wake up fine but this method requires
some practice because it's not so easy
to trick your own mind taking a cold
shower after getting up is a real
nightmare for some people but there's a
less daunting alternative you can get a
small but decent energy boost by washing
your face with cold water your eyelids
won't feel so heavy and it will clear
your mind
but there's an even better option if you
need a boost the best thing you can
drink every morning isn't coffee but
warm water with lemon juice
apart from charging your batteries it
also gets your digestive system going
and freshens your breath during sleep
your body loses a lot of fluid and a
glass of water with lemon replenishes
your stocks making you feel better when
you get up open a window look at the sky
and breathe in the fresh air the sounds
colors and smells will stimulate your
senses this simple action works wonders
after lying in bed for so many hours
giving you a little vitality and
improving your mood make your bed when
you wake up your bed is the first thing
you see after waking up so make it look
absolutely perfect tuck the sheets in
and completely smooth it out doing this
every single day will give a little
discipline to your routines after all
that careful straightening the
temptation to lie back down again will
disappear you won't want to mess it up
at least until the evening after waking
up tug on your hair slightly or give
your head a little massage blood will
quickly flow to your head and make you
feel better
there's also another more effective but
also more adventurous way to get the
blood rushing to your head turn it
upside down you don't have to literally
stand on your head just bend down as far
as you can go and look back at your legs
super minty chewing gum will wake you up
to your taste buds will be activated as
soon as you put it in your mouth
also chewing gum makes you more alert
getting rid of that morning drowsiness
even if you're still in bed brushing
your teeth is more effective but for
that you have to get out of bed which is
a whole other step
so keep some gum on your bedside table
now if you're too lazy to go for a glass
of water or wash your face there are
still plenty of ways to wake up your
brain if not your body and you don't
have to get out of bed to do them for
example you can keep a crossword or any
other puzzle book nearby try to solve at
least one puzzle as soon as you wake up
and your brain will switch on soon
enough
it's very important to stick to a few
ground rules if you want to wake up not
feeling tired for one thing
don't use your phone for at least an
hour before you turn in the blue glow
from the screen blocks the production of
melatonin in your body which plays a
role in making you feel tired
in other words blue light stops you from
getting sleepy
which is the last thing that should be
happening at night try to wake up at the
same time every day even on weekends or
holidays your body needs to stick to the
correct sleep cycle even if you had fun
on Friday and went to bed late it's
better to wake up at your usual time the
next day and then nap a little in the
early afternoon over time your body will
wake up at the same time every day
without an alarm clock research has
shown the best alarm tone is a recording
of a woman's voice it wakes you up much
more easily and doesn't cause stress or
panic thanks to the influence of early
childhood it reminds a person of their
mother's voice giving them a feeling of
safety and peace of mind you can also
mix a female voice with another kind of
sound or use a song with female vocals
and a quiet instrument I like to wake up
to aunty Ross singing twisted because
it's also funny but hey that's just me
the son can also be a great natural
alarm clock don't close the curtains
before falling asleep
that way you'll be woken up by the rays
of dawn although don't do this in summer
when the Sun rises very early back and
disrupt your sleep instead in summer you
can just pull back the curtains and look
out the window as soon as you wake up if
you wake up in the middle of the night
don't turn the lights on light stimulate
your body and your sleep could be
disrupted until morning and try not to
look at your watch as this will stress
you out about how little time to rest
you have left
go to bed straight away and try some
relaxing breathing exercises to quickly
fall asleep again and distract yourself
from intrusive thoughts if you feel
sleepy and tired during the day take a
nap this will give you some energy for
the rest of the day and actually help
you fall asleep better at
but remember you should nap for only
about five to forty minutes anymore and
you may have trouble sleeping at bedtime
as you're about to go to bed set your
alarm to ring in two minutes time then
lie down and close your eyes due minutes
later get up and turn the alarm off
repeat this two more times when you wake
up tired in the morning your brain often
doesn't focus on consequences so you may
turn off the alarm and go back to bed
without thinking but the brain can also
repeat unconsciously what you did
earlier in a similar situation this
weird method can break the cycle doing
something out of the ordinary or that
you've never done before is one of the
best ways to wake yourself up for
example you could dance or sing your
favorite song put a sheet of paper and
pencils next to your bed so you can draw
the first thing that comes to your mind
in the morning if if you'll sleepy on
your way to work talk to a stranger you
can ask for directions or just have a
small chat start your day with some
physical activity but you don't have to
go out for a morning run yoga and
stretching not only stop you feeling
drowsy but can give you a boost for the
whole day
[Music]